feat: ERC initial draft (#1002)
ethereum/ERCs: ERCS/erc-7930.md

discussions-to: https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/erc-7930-interoperable-addresses/23365
status: Draft
type: Standards Track
category: ERC
created: 2025-02-02
---

## Abstract
Interoperable Addresses is a binary format to describe an address specific to one chain with an optional human-readable name representation.

It is designed in a manner that allows the community extend it to support naming schemes (or other not-yet-imagined features) in the future, as well as to support arbitrary-length addresses and chainids.

## Motivation
The Ethereum ecosystem is rapidly expanding into a multi-chain environment encompassing L1s, L2s, sidechains, and rollups—some EVM‐compatible, others not. A simple address alone is not sufficient to describe a blockchain account, since it does not identify which chain the address belongs to, creating ambiguity for wallets, dApps, and users. At the same time, it is important for the format to be extensible to support both current standards for address naming and future standards for chain naming.

> The current standard ethereum address representation defined in [EIP-55], with _optional_ retrofitted checksums implemented via selective capitalization of `a-f` characters, poses the following challenges:

Reviewer: EIP-55 should be linked to [https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-55](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-55
)

Author: this is linked :sparkles:  it's a reference-style link, with the destination on the bottom

- Verification of the checksum by a client is optional, meaning that mistyped or erroneous addresses may be accepted by these clients. There is no way for a user to distinguish a correct address from an incorrect one processed by a client that does not do validation.
- Addresses do not include any indication of the chain to which the address applies. This means chain information must be expressed out of band, and introduces the risk of an address being mistakenly used on a chain it is not valid for. This risk is particularly pronounced for addresses that represent smart contracts.
- The existing address format provides no mechanism for extension, meaning that there is no natural method to add these features to the existing address format.

Interoperable Addresses build on insights from [ERC-7828](./erc-7828.md), CAIP-10 and CAIP-50, offering a unified format which combines:
- Binding chain specificity (via explicit chain identifiers) to the raw address.
- Compact & canonical binary format for use on cross-chain message passing and intent declaration.
- Checksums for name collision mitigation & user error prevention.

> Furthermore, we have taken this as an opportunity to add a few features that will make addresses interoperable with infrastructure at the edges of and beyond the ethereum ecosystem, by supporting the representation of addresses of non-evm chains as well, for the benefit of cross-chain liquidity movements and cross-chain message passing.

Reviewer: To maintain an impersonal tone, it would be better to rephrase this sentence as: _“Furthermore, this proposal additionally adds features to make addresses interoperable with infrastructure…”_

Reviewer: Solved in [this commit](https://github.com/ethereum/ERCs/pull/1002/commits/cfad98a9cb459b9b20ed9cba7003947ba7151311).

### Guarantees this standard aims to provide
- Any future Interoperable Address will be trivially convertible to Interoperable Address v1 (specified below), which, together with the point below, makes them a canonical representation for users who need to treat them opaquely.

> - Two Interoperable Addresses, converted to this canonical version, will be bitwise-equal if and only if they represent the same _target address_.

Reviewer 2: As well as I understand, this is not true as of now. caip-19 ( https://chainagnostic.org/CAIPs/caip-19 ) mentions chain `cosmos:Binance-Chain-Tigris` in test cases. As well as I understand, this is Binance chain. But, as well as I understand, it can be also encoded as `eip155:56`. So, caip-2 chain ids are not unique. (Note: I'm not expert on Binance chain, so I can be wrong. It is possible this is simply error in caip-19 test cases.)

Also caip-288 ( https://chainagnostic.org/CAIPs/caip-288 ) "Best Practices for using CAIP 2" says: "As mentioned in [CAIPs#22](https://github.com/ChainAgnostic/CAIPs/issues/22), a given network is assumed to be unique within a namespace, but not unique across all namespaces".

So, even CAIPs themselves say that CAIP-2 ids are not globally unique

Author: 1- thanks, good catch!
2- _oh no_

will come back to this, would appreciate input from @frangio in the meantime, since he sort of represents the users needing canonicity :grin:

Reviewer 2: > BSC Smart Chain

This is [RAS syndrome](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/RAS_syndrome). But okay, I understand you

Address
: Chain namespace specific text representation of the address from the binary representation. Mapping between the two described in the [CAIP-350] profile for the chain type. In the case where `AddressLength` is zero, it should be the empty string.

Checksum
: 4-byte checksum calculated by computing the keccak256 hash of the concatenated `ChainType`, `ChainReferenceLength`, `ChainReference`, `AddressLength` and `Address` fields of the binary representation (that is, the v1 binary representation skipping the `Version` field), and truncating all but the first 4 bytes of the output. Represented as a base16 string as defined in RFC-4648.

## Rationale
- Chain and address fields' syntax is deliberately chosen to be able to express CAIP-2 namespaces (by using the `@` symbol for the separator, freeing up `:`) and CAIP-10 account IDs, with the caveat that no length restriction is placed, so chains with longer address formats or full 256-bit EVM chainids can be represented.
- Similarly, the address field includes `%` as a valid character to allow for url-encoding of any other characters.

> - While a fresh start on text-encoding schemes could e.g. make use of more characters with base58 or base64 to achieve greater information efficiency and/or abstract which chain the address exists on as an implementation detail, we chose a more familiar approach since:

Reviewer: Here as well, it would improve clarity and maintain an impersonal tone to rephrase _“we chose a more familiar approach”_ as _“a familiar approach was selected because…”._

The above has the drawback of not being able to guarantee canonicity. That is, there could be multiple valid CAIP-10 addresses pointing to the same target address.

Also, the text format is of little use for smart contracts involved with cross-chain liquidity transfers and message passing due to its reduced data efficiency and lack of canonicity.

Human-readable names are convertible to CAIP-10 without even going through the binary representation, so backwards-compatibility with actors expecting CAIP-10 identifiers should not be an issue.

#### [ERC-7828]
[ERC-7828] is a text-only representation of addresses with optional resolution into more human-readable strings by use of existing ENS infrastructure for address names, and both the centralized ethereum-lists/chains list and ERC-7785 for resolution of chain names, while this aims to be a simple but extendable binary-first format.

> We believe the interop roadmap is better served by having a standardized binary format for addresses first, which allows the message passing and intents verticals to move forward on a common interface, with a good-enough text representation which is familiar to users and useful for developers, and as a next step develop a chain & address name resolving standard on top of it, leveraging its uniformity and extensibility.

Reviewer: Rephrase here as well: instead of _“We believe the interop roadmap is better served…”_ consider _“It is expected that the interop roadmap is better served…”_ or simply _“The interop roadmap is better served…”._

Note the version field is removed before hashing.

### Example 4: Solana mainnet network, no address
Chain: Solana Mainnet.

Address: Not specified.

Human-readable representation: `@solana:5eykt4UsFv8P8NJdTREpY1vzqKqZKvdpKuc147dw2N9d#2eb18670`

Binary representation:
```
0x000100022045296998a6f8e2a784db5d9f95e18fc23f70441a1039446801089879b08c7ef000
  ^^^^------------------------------------------------------------------------ Version:              decimal 1
      ^^^^-------------------------------------------------------------------- ChainType:            2 bytes of CAIP namespace
          ^^------------------------------------------------------------------ ChainReferenceLength: decimal 32
            ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^-- ChainReference:       32 bytes of solana genesis block
                                                                            ^^ AddressLength:        zero, indicating no address
```
keccak256 input for checksum: `0x00022045296998a6f8e2a784db5d9f95e18fc23f70441a1039446801089879b08c7ef000`.
Note the version field is removed before hashing.

> ## Security Considerations

Reviewer: It might be worth discussing some risks here. For example, could checksums fail or be improperly validated? Could misinterpreted chain identifiers lead to funds loss? Are there upgrade or compatibility risks introduced by the versioning scheme?

Author: > could checksums fail or be improperly validated?

I refrained from writing UX guidelines in this document given that it's mostly concerned with binary addresses, but imagine wallets not giving enough prominence to checksums so they are missed by users could be a possible failure mode.
I didn't add them on ERC-7828 either, since:
- Wallet's UX developers will probably be better at choosing how to display information than what I can come up with (@skeletor-spaceman came up with the example of using blockies instead of text checksums, for example)
- There's not an adversarial relationship between a given wallet's UX designer and anybody else which could be mitigated by a standard's normative.

Collisions on 4-byte checksums are feasible to mine, but it's unlikely the impersonator's address (or in the case of ERC-7828, name) is also a lookalike of the intended recipient's

...well, that hinges on the wallet displaying the name also having sane warnings around unicode glyph collisions, in the case if 7828. Will add it as a security consideration of that standard.

I also considered the possibility of hash collisions happening because of there not being a delimiter between address and chainid, but that seems harder to exploit than the fact that checksums are only 4`bytes long

> Could misinterpreted chain identifiers lead to funds loss?

Most definetely, but for non-malicious usecases (such as an attacker mining an address so that `(minedAddres, badChain)` has a 4-byte collision with `(whateverAddress, intendedChain)`) the checksum should be a good mitigation.

> Are there upgrade or compatibility risks introduced by the versioning scheme?

I tried to lay them out in the 'Restrictions for all Interoperable Address versions' section, basically we define version bit to mean the Interoperable Address is backwards-compatible with v1, and parseable with the same algorithm.

The main risk would be for a future Interoperable Address to define an associated Interoperable Name which can cause collisions with previous versions, e.g. having a v3 name be equivalent to a v2 name while representing a different (address, chain) pair.

In the past we explored including the address' version in the Interoperable Name, but that felt like a lazy (albeit robust) solution, which unnecessarily leaked implementation details onto users. The way we actually intend to avoid such a scenario is:
- Review of other ERCs defining further Interoperable Address versions
- Implementing ERC-7828 in a flexible enough way (by coupling the resolution method to a TLD) that lowers the need to define new versions in the near future.

wdyt?

btw, I'm posting this in the forum since this discussion should outlive this PR. Feel free to continue the discussion there.

Author: > ...well, that hinges on the wallet displaying the name also having sane warnings around unicode glyph collisions, in the case if 7828. Will add it as a security consideration of that standard.

pushed!

## Specification
The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT", "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "NOT RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described in RFC 2119 and RFC 8174.

### Concepts
Interoperable Address
: A binary payload which unambiguously identifies a target address and allows conversion to a human-readable name.

Interoperable Name
: A string representation of an interoperable address, meant to be used by humans.

Target address
: The (address, chain ID) pair a particular Interoperable Address points to.

### Interoperable Address V1 binary format definition
In binary format, addresses MUST have the following encoding:

```
┌─────────┬───────────┬──────────────────────┬────────────────┬───────────────┬─────────┐
│ Version │ ChainType │ ChainReferenceLength │ ChainReference │ AddressLength │ Address │
└─────────┴───────────┴──────────────────────┴────────────────┴───────────────┴─────────┘
```

Where:

Version
: A 2-byte version identifier. For version 1, this must be `0x0001` (big-endian). Future versions SHOULD be standardized in separate ERCs.

ChainType

> : A 2-byte value as defined in CAIP-350, corresponding to a [CAIP-2] _namespace_, which allows users to know how to interpret & display the other two fields.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
: A 2-byte value as defined in CAIP-350, corresponding to a [CAIP-2] _namespace_, which allows users to know how to interpret & display the other two fields. For all EVM chains, the `chainType` is `0x0000`.
```
It seems like you can save all a substantial portion of your readers a click and a pageload by telling them they can just hardcode [0x0000](https://github.com/ChainAgnostic/namespaces/pull/140/files#diff-1defbab2825adf2d63ad93b31fc7710cd437a250045ae0bcb20f180bc3d6f634R4) 😄

- While a fresh start on text-encoding schemes could e.g. make use of more characters with base58 or base64 to achieve greater information efficiency and/or abstract which chain the address exists on as an implementation detail, a more familiar approach was chosen since:
    - It makes the Interoperable Address <-> raw address relationship evident to the user, which will make the cases where the former are not (yet) supported by a dapp or hardware wallet easier to reason with, as users will evidently see the address is the same, but it's the chain&checksum that is being trimmed.
    - Its extra human-readability will make it more useful as a a stopgap solution until a standard focused on chain and address names is finalized.
- We chose to support zero-length addresses and chainids to be able to use just one standard to represent both potentially foreign _target addresses_ (e.g. the recipient of a cross-chain message) and also plain addresses or chainids (e.g. to specify the origin-chain hook address of a cross-chain message), for greater uniformity across implementations.

> ### Comparisons with other standards

Reviewer 4: This subsection belongs under Motivation, since it's justifying the proposal as a whole.

Reviewer 5: solved 13e2441be07693b31648689b9a8653a6cf5b2e12

- Interoperable Address versions MAY assign extra syntactic restrictions on the associated Interoperable Name, coupled to novel semantic meaning (e.g. use of ENS or other naming registries)
- Interoperable Address versions MAY define extra fields for purposes such as storing information on how to display the addresses.

### Interoperable Name format definition

#### Syntax
```bnf
<human readable name> ::= <address> @ <chain> # <checksum>
<address>             ::= [.-:_%a-zA-Z0-9]*
<chain>               ::= [.-:_a-zA-Z0-9]*
<checksum>            ::= [0-9A-F]{8}
```

Where:

Chain
: String representation of [CAIP-2] blockchain identifier, recovered from the binary representation described in the [CAIP-350] profile for the chain type. In the case where `ChainReferenceLength` is zero, it should be the CAIP namespace alone, and no trailing colon. Note that it's not possible to specify a reference without a namespace.

Address
: Chain namespace specific text representation of the address from the binary representation. Mapping between the two described in the [CAIP-350] profile for the chain type. In the case where `AddressLength` is zero, it should be the empty string.

Checksum

> : 4-byte checksum calculated by computing the keccak256 hash of the concatenated `ChainType`, `ChainReferenceLength`, `ChainReference`, `AddressLength` and `Address` fields of the binary representation (that is, the v1 binary representation skipping the `Version` field), and truncating all but the first 4 bytes of the output. Represented as a base16 string as defined in [RFC 4648].

Reviewer 4: Should the "should"s here be uppercased?

          ^^---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ChainReferenceLength: decimal 32
            ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^------------------------------------------------------------------ ChainReference:       32 bytes of solana genesis block
                                                                            ^^---------------------------------------------------------------- AddressLength:        decimal 32
                                                                              ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^--- Address:              32 bytes of solana address
```
keccak256 input for checksum: `0x00022045296998a6f8e2a784db5d9f95e18fc23f70441a1039446801089879b08c7ef02005333498d5aea4ae009585c43f7b8c30df8e70187d4a713d134f977fc8dfe0b5`.
Note the version field is removed before hashing.

### Example 3: EVM address without chainid
Chain: `eip155` namespace, chainid not specified.
Address: `0xd8dA6BF26964aF9D7eEd9e03E53415D37aA96045`

> Interoperable Name: `0xd8dA6BF26964aF9D7eEd9e03E53415D37aA96045@eip155:#144A4B21`

Reviewer 6: could we do without the colon ? What would be the issue if we did not use it ?

My understanding is by parsing the `@` and the `#` we would get the 3 blocks (address, chain, checksum). The chain would be `eip155`. From here, the absence of column makes it clear that there is only a namespace without reference.

Absence of colon is only an issue if the system wants to support both "namespace without reference" and "reference without namespace" ... but I don't this the second case makes any sens, does it?

Author: you're correct, there's no need to include the colon in cases where there's no chain reference. Updated the spec & this example at 59ace6bd76d0ad2954beac901b44a60160872c6a

Note the version field is removed before hashing.

### Example 4: Solana mainnet network, no address
Chain: Solana Mainnet.

Address: Not specified.

Interoperable Name: `@solana:5eykt4UsFv8P8NJdTREpY1vzqKqZKvdpKuc147dw2N9d#2eb18670`

Interoperable Address:
```
0x000100022045296998a6f8e2a784db5d9f95e18fc23f70441a1039446801089879b08c7ef000
  ^^^^------------------------------------------------------------------------ Version:              decimal 1
      ^^^^-------------------------------------------------------------------- ChainType:            2 bytes of CAIP namespace
          ^^------------------------------------------------------------------ ChainReferenceLength: decimal 32
            ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^-- ChainReference:       32 bytes of solana genesis block
                                                                            ^^ AddressLength:        zero, indicating no address
```
keccak256 input for checksum: `0x00022045296998a6f8e2a784db5d9f95e18fc23f70441a1039446801089879b08c7ef000`.
Note the version field is removed before hashing.

> ### Example 5: Arbitrum One address
> Chain: Ethereum Mainnet

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
### Example 5: Arbitrum One address
Chain: Arbitrum One
```

Address: `0xd8dA6BF26964aF9D7eEd9e03E53415D37aA96045`

Interoperable Name: `0xd8dA6BF26964aF9D7eEd9e03E53415D37aA96045@eip155:42161#38DDF570`

Interoperable Address:
```

> 0x0001000001A4B114D8DA6BF26964AF9D7EED9E03E53415D37AA96045

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
0x0001000002A4B114D8DA6BF26964AF9D7EED9E03E53415D37AA96045
```

Author: good find, thanks!

```
keccak256 input for checksum: `0x000001A4B114D8DA6BF26964AF9D7EED9E03E53415D37AA96045`
note the version field is removed before hashing

## Security Considerations
While this standard aims to be a foundation to be able to canonically refer to addresses on different chains, that guarantee is going to be a leaky abstraction in the real world, given that e.g. a particular chain namespace might define a serialization scheme that can't guarantee canonicity of addresses, or a given network might have two valid CAIP-2 ids referring to it.

It is therefore advised for implementers requiring canonicity of addresses (e.g by using them as keys in smart contract mappings or other key-value stores), to thoroughly review the the CAIP-350 profile of a chain namespace for the possibility of a lack of canonicity of addresses (which should be noted in the profile's 'Extra Considerations' section) as well as collisions with other already-supported namespaces.

## Copyright
Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](../LICENSE.md).

[EIP-55]: ./erc-55.md
[ERC-7828]: ./erc-7828.md
[ERC-7785]: ./erc-7785.md

> <!-- TODO: link to CAIP-350-->

Reviewer 8: Fixed [401b533](https://github.com/ethereum/ERCs/pull/1002/commits/401b533c7f4e85fdf56082bf729e6d5de34f2b46)

discussions-to: https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/erc-7930-interoperable-addresses/23365
status: Draft
type: Standards Track
category: ERC
created: 2025-02-02
---

## Abstract
Interoperable Addresses is a binary format to describe an address specific to one chain with a companion 'Interoperable Names' specification for human-readable display.

It is designed in a manner that allows the community to extend it to support naming schemes (or other not-yet-imagined features) in the future, as well as to support arbitrary-length addresses and chainids.

## Motivation
The Ethereum ecosystem is rapidly expanding into a multi-chain environment encompassing L1s, L2s, sidechains, and rollups—some EVM‐compatible, others not. A simple address alone is not sufficient to describe a blockchain account, since it does not identify which chain the address belongs to, creating ambiguity for wallets, dApps, and users. At the same time, it is important for the format to be extensible to support both current standards for address naming and future standards for chain naming.

> The current standard ethereum address representation defined in [ERC-55], with _optional_ retrofitted checksums implemented via selective capitalization of `a-f` characters, poses the following challenges:

Reviewer 9: [ERC-55] link is broken

> The current standard ethereum address representation defined in [ERC-55], with _optional_ retrofitted checksums implemented via selective capitalization of `a-f` characters, poses the following challenges:

Reviewer 10: imo this section is a bit convoluted, I would just keep it to:

```suggestion
Current Ethereum addresses ([ERC-55]) lack chain specificity and have optional checksums, creating several challenges:
```

> - Verification of the checksum by a client is optional, meaning that mistyped or erroneous addresses may be accepted by these clients. There is no way for a user to distinguish a correct address from an incorrect one processed by a client that does not do validation.

Reviewer 10: This bullet point could be simplified for better readability:

```suggestion
- Optional checksum validation allows mistyped addresses to be accepted without user awareness.
```

The current version covers the same concept but is a bit lengthy. This shorter version captures both the acceptance issue and the user awareness problem in one clear statement.

Furthermore, this proposal adds a few features to make addresses interoperable with infrastructure at the edges of and beyond the ethereum ecosystem, by supporting the representation of addresses of non-evm chains as well, for the benefit of cross-chain liquidity movements and cross-chain message passing.

### Guarantees this standard aims to provide
- Any future Interoperable Address will be trivially convertible to Interoperable Address v1 (specified below), which, together with the point below, makes them a canonical representation for users who need to treat them opaquely.
- Two Interoperable Addresses, converted to this canonical version, will be bitwise-equal if and only if they represent the same _target address_.
- Checksums are short enough to be compared by humans, and allow for easy differentiation of _target addresses_ independently of any extra data the Interoperable Address may contain.

## Specification
The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT", "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "NOT RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described in RFC 2119 and RFC 8174.

> ### Concepts
> Interoperable Address
> : A binary payload which unambiguously identifies a target address and allows conversion to a human-readable name.
> 
> Interoperable Name
> : A string representation of an interoperable address, meant to be used by humans.
> 
> Target address
> : The (address, chain ID) pair a particular Interoperable Address points to.

Reviewer 10: The definitions have a circular reference issue where "Interoperable Address" references "target address" before it's defined. Consider this revision to maintain the same order while fixing the circularity:

```suggestion
Interoperable Address
: Binary encoding of a (chain, address) pair with version and checksum.

Interoperable Name
: Human-readable text representation of an interoperable address.

Target Address
: A (chain, address) pair identifying a specific account on a specific blockchain.
```

This way each definition builds on concepts already established rather than forward-referencing.

> ### Interoperable Address binary format definition
> In binary format addresses have the following encoding:

Reviewer 10: The standard references V1 throughout but never formally introduces it. This section should clearly establish the V1 specification and use formal language:

```suggestion
### Interoperable Address V1 binary format definition
In binary format, addresses MUST have the following encoding:
```

Adding "V1" to the title provides the formal introduction, and "MUST" establishes the normative requirement.

```
┌─────────┬───────────┬──────────────────────┬────────────────┬───────────────┬─────────┐
│ Version │ ChainType │ ChainReferenceLength │ ChainReference │ AddressLength │ Address │
└─────────┴───────────┴──────────────────────┴────────────────┴───────────────┴─────────┘
```

Where:

> Version
> : A 2-byte version identifier. In the current standard this must always be the big-endian unsigned int 1. Other versions should be defined in future ERCs.

Reviewer 10: The phrasing could be more direct and concise:

```suggestion
: A 2-byte version identifier. For version 1, this MUST be `0x0001` (big-endian). Future versions SHOULD be standardized in separate ERCs.
```

This removes "In the current standard" redundancy and makes the future versioning guidance clearer.

ChainType
: A 2-byte value as defined in CAIP-350, corresponding to a [CAIP-2] _namespace_, which allows users to know how to interpret & display the other two fields.

ChainReferenceLength
: A 1-byte integer encoding the length of ChainReference in bytes. Note that it MAY be zero, in which the Interoperable Address will not include a chain reference.

ChainReference
: Variable length, binary representation of [CAIP-2] chain namespace & reference serialized as explained in the CAIP-350 profile for the chain type, encoding the chain ID.

AddressLength
: 1-byte integer encoding the length of Address in bytes. Note that it MAY be zero, in which the Interoperable Address will not include an address. It MUST NOT be zero if `ChainReferenceLength` is also zero.

Address
: Variable length field containing the binary format of the address component. For serialization details of different types of addresses see the CAIP-350 profile for the chain type.

> #### Restrictions for all Interoperable Address versions
> - Future Interoperable Address versions whose `ChainType`, `ChainReference` and `Address` can't be extracted in the same way as a `v1` address MUST set its most-significant version bit to 1, to allow for parser forward-compatibility.
> - The Interoperable Address MUST define the mechanism to both include an address and specify the chain it belongs to directly in the payload, fully defining a target address. Any version adding an indirection layer between payload data and these two fields would violate this restriction.
>     - While it is possible that a given instance of an Interoperable Address to not include an address or a chain reference, every version must allow for both to be specified at the same time.
>     - Furthermore, future versions MUST be serialized to v1 and use the same input data to the checksum algorithm as described below, so an Interoperable Address' checksum only represents its target address.

Reviewer 10: This section would benefit from a brief introduction explaining its purpose, plus clearer formatting of the rules:

```suggestion
#### Version Compatibility Rules
These rules ensure that future versions of Interoperable Addresses maintain backwards compatibility and consistent behavior across implementations:

- Future versions incompatible with v1 parsing MUST set the most significant bit of the version field to 1
- All versions MUST support both address and chain specification simultaneously  
- All versions MUST serialize to v1 format for checksum calculation, excluding the version field from the hash input
```

The intro paragraph clarifies why these rules exist, and the bullet points are more consistently formatted with clearer language.

- Interoperable Address versions MAY define extra fields for purposes such as storing information on how to display the addresses.

### Interoperable Name format definition
This section is considered OPTIONAL.

#### Syntax
```bnf
<human readable name> ::= <address> @ <chain> # <checksum>
<address>             ::= [.-:_%a-zA-Z0-9]*
<chain>               ::= [.-:_a-zA-Z0-9]*
<checksum>            ::= [0-9A-F]{8}
```

Where:

Chain
: String representation of [CAIP-2] blockchain identifier, recovered from the binary representation described in the CAIP-350 profile for the chain type. In the case where `ChainReferenceLength` is zero, it should be the CAIP namespace alone, and no trailing colon. Note that it's not possible to specify a reference without a namespace.

Address
: Chain namespace specific text representation of the address from the binary representation. Mapping between the two described in the CAIP-350 profile for the chain type. In the case where `AddressLength` is zero, it should be the empty string.

Checksum

> : 4-byte checksum calculated by computing the keccak256 hash of the concatenated `ChainType`, `ChainReferenceLength`, `ChainReference`, `AddressLength` and `Address` fields of the binary representation (that is, the v1 binary representation skipping the `Version` field), and truncating all but the first 4 bytes of the output. Represented as a base16 string as defined in RFC-4648.

Reviewer 5: solved 7f2246241299c687196cba5d8af7d5ff0b1b50c6

- While a fresh start on text-encoding schemes could e.g. make use of more characters with base58 or base64 to achieve greater information efficiency and/or abstract which chain the address exists on as an implementation detail, a more familiar approach was chosen since:
    - It makes the Interoperable Address <-> raw address relationship evident to the user, which will make the cases where the former are not (yet) supported by a dapp or hardware wallet easier to reason with, as users will evidently see the address is the same, but it's the chain&checksum that is being trimmed.
    - Its extra human-readability will make it more useful as a a stopgap solution until a standard focused on chain and address names is finalized.
- We chose to support zero-length addresses and chainids to be able to use just one standard to represent both potentially foreign _target addresses_ (e.g. the recipient of a cross-chain message) and also plain addresses or chainids (e.g. to specify the origin-chain hook address of a cross-chain message), for greater uniformity across implementations.

> ### Comparisons with other standards
> 
> #### [CAIP-10]
> [CAIP-10] proposes a standard text format to represent what in this document is defined as target addresses. 
> Since it's a text-only standard, it does not concern itself with the serialization/deserialization of the various chains' address formats, simply using the text representation of addresses already defined by the respective chains. This means it is trivial to add support for chains to [CAIP-10], while doing so with this standard involves defining a serialization scheme.
> 
> The above has the drawback of not being able to guarantee canonicity. That is, there could be multiple valid [CAIP-10] addresses pointing to the same target address.
> 
> Also, the text format is of little use for smart contracts involved with cross-chain liquidity transfers and message passing due to its reduced data efficiency and lack of canonicity.
> 
> Interoperable Names are convertible to [CAIP-10] without even going through the binary representation, so backwards-compatibility with actors expecting [CAIP-10] identifiers should not be an issue.
> 
> #### [ERC-7828]
> [ERC-7828] is a text-only representation of addresses with optional resolution into more human-readable strings by use of existing ENS infrastructure for address names, and both the centralized ethereum-lists/chains list and [ERC-7785] for resolution of chain names, while this aims to be a simple but extendable binary-first format.
> 
> The interop roadmap is better served by having a standardized binary format for addresses first, which allows the message passing and intents verticals to move forward on a common interface, with a good-enough text representation which is familiar to users and useful for developers, and as a next step develop a chain & address name resolving standard on top of it, leveraging its uniformity and extensibility.

Reviewer 10: This condensed section is much better than the previous lengthy comparisons, but could use slight expansion for clarity:

```suggestion
### Relationship to Existing Standards
ERC-7930 provides binary encoding for the CAIP-10 semantic model with guaranteed canonicity, addressing CAIP-10's limitation of potential multiple representations for the same target address. The Interoperable Names format maintains backwards compatibility with CAIP-10 text format for seamless integration with existing tooling.
```

This adds just enough context about why binary encoding matters (canonicity) and what backwards compatibility means (existing tooling) without returning to the verbose comparisons. Also, I think this section should be moved to the "Backwards Compatibility" section regardless

> ## Test Cases

Reviewer 10: I think the examples 3 and 5 don't demonstrate new serialization concepts beyond what 1 and 2 already cover.

- **Example 3** (chain-only): While the spec allows zero-length addresses, this edge case adds complexity without showing practical usage. The parsing mechanics are identical to Example 2, just with `AddressLength = 0`.

- **Example 5** (Arbitrum): This is essentially a variation of Example 1 (EVM chain) with different chain ID encoding length. It doesn't demonstrate new serialization patterns.

I would consider either removing them or repurposing them

### Example 1: Ethereum mainnet address
Chain: Ethereum Mainnet
Address: `0xd8dA6BF26964aF9D7eEd9e03E53415D37aA96045`

Interoperable Name: `0xd8dA6BF26964aF9D7eEd9e03E53415D37aA96045@eip155:1#4CA88C9C`

Interoperable Address:
```
0x00010000010114D8DA6BF26964AF9D7EED9E03E53415D37AA96045
  ^^^^-------------------------------------------------- Version:              decimal 1
      ^^^^---------------------------------------------- ChainType:            2 bytes of CAIP namespace
          ^^-------------------------------------------- ChainReferenceLength: decimal 1
            ^^------------------------------------------ ChainReference:       1 byte to store uint8(1)
              ^^---------------------------------------- AddressLength:        decimal 20
                ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^ Address:              20 bytes of ethereum address
```
keccak256 input for checksum: `0x0000010114D8DA6BF26964AF9D7EED9E03E53415D37AA96045`
note the version field is removed before hashing

### Example 2: Solana mainnet address
Chain: Solana Mainnet

Address: `MJKqp326RZCHnAAbew9MDdui3iCKWco7fsK9sVuZTX2`

> Interoperable Name: `MJKqp326RZCHnAAbew9MDdui3iCKWco7fsK9sVuZTX2@solana:5eykt4UsFv8P8NJdTREpY1vzqKqZKvdpKuc147dw2N9d#88835c11`

Reviewer 6: checksum should be upercase

```suggestion
Interoperable Name: `MJKqp326RZCHnAAbew9MDdui3iCKWco7fsK9sVuZTX2@solana:5eykt4UsFv8P8NJdTREpY1vzqKqZKvdpKuc147dw2N9d#88835C11`
```

          ^^---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ChainReferenceLength: decimal 32
            ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^------------------------------------------------------------------ ChainReference:       32 bytes of solana genesis block
                                                                            ^^---------------------------------------------------------------- AddressLength:        decimal 32
                                                                              ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^--- Address:              32 bytes of solana address
```
keccak256 input for checksum: `0x00022045296998a6f8e2a784db5d9f95e18fc23f70441a1039446801089879b08c7ef02005333498d5aea4ae009585c43f7b8c30df8e70187d4a713d134f977fc8dfe0b5`.
Note the version field is removed before hashing.

### Example 3: EVM address without chainid
Chain: `eip155` namespace, chainid not specified.
Address: `0xd8dA6BF26964aF9D7eEd9e03E53415D37aA96045`

> Interoperable Name: `0xd8dA6BF26964aF9D7eEd9e03E53415D37aA96045@eip155#144A4B21`

Reviewer 6: incorrect hash
```suggestion
Interoperable Name: `0xd8dA6BF26964aF9D7eEd9e03E53415D37aA96045@eip155#B26DB7CB`
```

> Interoperable Name: `0xd8dA6BF26964aF9D7eEd9e03E53415D37aA96045@eip155#144A4B21`

Reviewer 6: fix hash (do not include version in its computation
```suggestion
Interoperable Name: `0xd8dA6BF26964aF9D7eEd9e03E53415D37aA96045@eip155#B26DB7CB`
```

Reviewer 8: fixed [e48cc67](https://github.com/ethereum/ERCs/pull/1002/commits/e48cc67859ae755deae1cc39b442c9401cc17a18)

Interoperable Address:
```
0x000100000014D8DA6BF26964AF9D7EED9E03E53415D37AA96045
  ^^^^------------------------------------------------ Version:              decimal 1
      ^^^^-------------------------------------------- ChainType:            2 bytes of CAIP namespace
          ^^------------------------------------------ ChainReferenceLength: zero, indicating no chainid
            ^^---------------------------------------- AddressLength:        decimal 20
              ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^ Address:              20 bytes of ethereum address
```

> keccak256 input for checksum: `0x000100000014D8DA6BF26964AF9D7EED9E03E53415D37AA96045`

Reviewer 6: version was not removed 

```suggestion
keccak256 input for checksum: `0x00000014D8DA6BF26964AF9D7EED9E03E53415D37AA96045`
```

Reviewer 8: fixed [e48cc67](https://github.com/ethereum/ERCs/pull/1002/commits/e48cc67859ae755deae1cc39b442c9401cc17a18)

Note the version field is removed before hashing.

### Example 4: Solana mainnet network, no address
Chain: Solana Mainnet.

Address: Not specified.

> Interoperable Name: `@solana:5eykt4UsFv8P8NJdTREpY1vzqKqZKvdpKuc147dw2N9d#2eb18670`

Reviewer 6: specs says checksum should use upercase

```suggestion
Interoperable Name: `@solana:5eykt4UsFv8P8NJdTREpY1vzqKqZKvdpKuc147dw2N9d#2EB18670`
```

Author: thanks! fixed in f664c938897e63e9a3354d37190d3633b49f3548

Interoperable Address:
```
0x000100022045296998a6f8e2a784db5d9f95e18fc23f70441a1039446801089879b08c7ef000
  ^^^^------------------------------------------------------------------------ Version:              decimal 1
      ^^^^-------------------------------------------------------------------- ChainType:            2 bytes of CAIP namespace
          ^^------------------------------------------------------------------ ChainReferenceLength: decimal 32
            ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^-- ChainReference:       32 bytes of solana genesis block
                                                                            ^^ AddressLength:        zero, indicating no address
```
keccak256 input for checksum: `0x00022045296998a6f8e2a784db5d9f95e18fc23f70441a1039446801089879b08c7ef000`.
Note the version field is removed before hashing.

### Example 5: Arbitrum One address
Chain: Arbitrum One
Address: `0xd8dA6BF26964aF9D7eEd9e03E53415D37aA96045`

> Interoperable Name: `0xd8dA6BF26964aF9D7eEd9e03E53415D37aA96045@eip155:42161#38DDF570`

Reviewer 6: incorrect hash

```suggestion
Interoperable Name: `0xd8dA6BF26964aF9D7eEd9e03E53415D37aA96045@eip155:42161#D2E02854`
```

                ^^---------------------------------------- AddressLength:        decimal 20
                  ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^ Address:              20 bytes of ethereum address
```
keccak256 input for checksum: `0x000002A4B114D8DA6BF26964AF9D7EED9E03E53415D37AA96045`
note the version field is removed before hashing

## Security Considerations
While this standard aims to be a foundation to be able to canonically refer to addresses on different chains, that guarantee is going to be a leaky abstraction in the real world, given that e.g. a particular chain namespace might define a serialization scheme that can't guarantee canonicity of addresses, or a given network might have two valid [CAIP-2] ids referring to it.

It is therefore advised for implementers requiring canonicity of addresses (e.g by using them as keys in smart contract mappings or other key-value stores), to thoroughly review the the CAIP-350 profile of a chain namespace for the possibility of a lack of canonicity of addresses (which should be noted in the profile's 'Extra Considerations' section) as well as collisions with other already-supported namespaces.

> 

Reviewer 10: I think the security considerations should be divided in sections so that we can accomodate the following.

```suggestion
### 4-byte checksum collisions
Feasible to mine with current hardware. Implementers should display full addresses alongside checksums.

### Version collision risk
Future versions may create name collisions. See versioning restrictions for mitigation strategies.
```

Purposely recommending small sections but feel free to expand.
